# BoggleSolver
Finds all words from a given dictionary in a game of boggle.

## Demos
A demonstration of the solver can be found in test.boggle.solved.SolvedBoggleGridTest

Various other demonstrations can also be found in the test package

## Design
The boggle solver consists of many classes, particularly `BoggleGrid` and `WordDictionary`. `BoggleGrid` stores the data necessary for a game of boggle. `WordDictionary` stores the possible words to be found in a game of boggle.

Each cell or die in the game of boggle is represented by the class `BoggleDie`. Each die contains 6 letters with 1 letter on each side. The dies can be randomly generated by the `BoggleDieFactory`.

To find all words in a `BoggleGrid` I created `SolvedBoggleGrid` which brute-forces through all possible combinations of words in the `BoggleGrid` by starting at a single cell and branching to every possible adjacent cell and marking the found words. The unneeded branches are pruned by checking whether the current branch is a prefix to a word.

In order to provide fast word and word-prefix lookups,  `WordDictionary` uses a simple [trie](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trie) to store all words.

There's certainly room for optimization, but the structures and algorithms used provide great performance in relation to their simplicity.

## Purpose
I was tasked with finding the words in a boggle grid during an interview and I wanted to know how the whole thing could be implemented. It was a great learning experience!
